DOC-9205 - KV Operations dev-reorg (#2275)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/guides/pages/updating-data.adoc

= Updating Data
:description: How to update documents in Couchbase.
:page-pagination: full
:page-topic-type: guide
:tabs:
:github: Click the GitHub button icon:github[] to view this code in context.

include::partial$example-attributes.adoc[]

[abstract]
{description}

> 

Reviewer: For consistency

```suggestion

== Introduction

```

Couchbase Server allows you to update data within a document by ID using either an `upsert` or a `replace` operation. 
An `upsert` operation will update or create a full document with the given data.

> A `replace` operation, on the other hand, will only replace a document if it exists within the database.

Reviewer: Remove markup from "upsert" and "replace" throughout this page when used as generic terms rather than command names or options .

TIP: Both operations will completely replace a full document.
If you wish to update only certain _paths_ within a document then we recommend performing a _Sub-Document_ operation.

> 

Reviewer: Include links to the client tools and warning about altering your data

```suggestion

include::partial$clients.adoc[tag=refs]

include::partial$data-warning.adoc[]

```

== Upserting a Document

> To update/create a document in the database perform an `upsert` operation.

Reviewer: Trying to differentiate this from the Replace section

```suggestion
To update a document, or create the document if it doesn't exist, perform an upsert operation.
```

> [{tabs}]

Reviewer: Add links to relevant reference docs for each tab.

====
cbc::
+ 
--

> . Update a JSON document with some new data.

Reviewer: Slight wording change — trying to bring the tone more into line with how-to instructions, rather than a worked example

```suggestion
. Create a JSON document containing the updated data.
```

. Use the `cbc create` command with `--mode upsert` to update/create a document.

{kv-update-example}

> .airport-123

Reviewer: Again, brief explanation of the JSON file in this example. Maybe should include the entire file though?

```suggestion
{kv-update-example}

It is assumed that the updated file `airport-123.json` already exists in the `tmp` directory:

.airport-123
```

If it doesn't exist, Couchbase will simply create a new document.

{kv-update-example}

[source,csharp]
----
include::dotnet-sdk:hello-world:example$KvHelloWorldScoped.csx[tag=kv-update-upsert,indent=0]
----

{github}
--

Java::
+ 
--
Use the `upsert()` method to update a document in the database.
If it doesn't exist, Couchbase will simply create a new document.

{kv-update-example}

[source,java]
----
include::java-sdk:hello-world:example$KvHelloWorldScoped.java[tag=kv-update-upsert,indent=0]
----

{github}
--

Node.js::
+ 
--
Use the `upsert()` function to update a document in the database.
If it doesn't exist, Couchbase will simply create a new document.

{kv-update-example}

[source,nodejs]
----
include::nodejs-sdk:hello-world:example$kv-hello-world-scoped.js[tag=kv-update-upsert,indent=0]
----

{github}
--

Python::
+ 
--
Use the `upsert()` function to update a document in the database.
If it doesn't exist, Couchbase will simply create a new document.

{kv-update-example}

[source,python]
----
include::python-sdk:hello-world:example$kv_hello_world_scoped.py[tag=kv-update-upsert,indent=0]
----

{github}
--
====

== Replacing a Document

> To update an existing document perform a `replace` operation.

Reviewer: Slightly confusing because we've already used "update an existing document" in the upsert section.

```suggestion
To update a  document that already exists, perform a replace operation.
```

> [{tabs}]

Reviewer: Add links to relevant reference docs for each tab.

====
cbc::
+ 
--
. Update a JSON document with some new data.

. Use the `cbc create` command with `--mode replace` to update a document.

{kv-update-example}

> .airport-123

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{kv-update-example}

It is assumed that the replacement file `airport-123.json` already exists in the `tmp` directory:

.airport-123
```

Maybe include whole file?

[source,json]
----
{
// ...
  "reviews": [
// ...
    {
      "date": "2021-12-02T19:42:04.719604Z",
      "author": "Carmella O'Keefe",
      "content": "This hotel was cozy, conveniently located and clean."
    }
  ],
}
----

[source,shell]
----
include::example$kv/kv-cbc.sh[tag=cbc-kv-replace]
----

.Result
[source,console]
----
hotel-123            Stored. CAS=0x16bd486ce6250000
                     SYNCTOKEN=500,228620113724555,293
----

NOTE: If the document cannot be found, [.cmd]`cbc` will return a `LCB_ERR_DOCUMENT_NOT_FOUND` error. 
--

.NET::
+ 
--
. Fetch an existing document and change some of its data.

. Use the `ReplaceAsync()` function to update a document in Couchbase.
  To ensure data has not been modified before executing the `replace` operation, pass the document's `CAS` value to the method.

> . A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.

Reviewer: Removing number as this is a result, not a "do"

```suggestion
A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.
```

{kv-update-example}

[source,csharp]
----
include::dotnet-sdk:hello-world:example$KvHelloWorldScoped.csx[tag=kv-update-replace,indent=0]
----

NOTE: If the document doesn't exist, the SDK will return a `DocumentNotFoundException` error.

{github}
--

Java::
+ 
--
. Fetch an existing document and change some of its data.

. Use the `replace()` method to update a document in Couchbase
  To ensure data has not been modified before executing the `replace` operation, pass the document's `CAS` value to the method.

> . A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.

Reviewer: Removing number as this is a result, not a "do"

```suggestion
A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.
```

{kv-update-example}

[source,java]
----
include::java-sdk:hello-world:example$KvHelloWorldScoped.java[tag=kv-update-replace,indent=0]
----

NOTE: If the document doesn't exist, the SDK will return a `DocumentNotFoundException` error.

{github}
--
	
Node.js::
+ 
--
. Fetch an existing document and change some of its data.

. Use the `replace()` function to update a document in Couchbase.
  To ensure data has not been modified before executing the `replace` operation, pass the document's `CAS` value to the method.

> . A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.

Reviewer: Removing number as this is a result, not a "do"

```suggestion
A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.
```

{kv-update-example}

[source,nodejs]
----
include::nodejs-sdk:hello-world:example$kv-hello-world-scoped.js[tag=kv-update-replace,indent=0]
----

NOTE: If the document doesn't exist, the SDK will return a `DocumentNotFoundError` error.

{github}
--

Python::
+ 
--
. Fetch an existing document and change some of its data.

. Use the `replace()` function to update a document in Couchbase.
  To ensure data has not been modified before executing the `replace` operation, pass the document's `CAS` value to the method.

> . A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.

Reviewer: Removing number as this is a result, not a "do"

```suggestion
A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.
```

{kv-update-example}

[source,python]
----
include::python-sdk:hello-world:example$kv_hello_world_scoped.py[tag=kv-update-replace,indent=0]
----

NOTE: If the document doesn't exist, the SDK will return a `DocumentNotFoundException` error.

{github}
--
====

== Updating a Sub-Document

> To update a specific path within a document you can perform a _Sub-Document_ operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change a specific field inside a document, you can perform a _Sub-Document_ operation.
```

You can use either a Sub-Document `upsert` or `replace` operation depending on what is required for your application.

> [{tabs}]

Reviewer: Add links to relevant reference docs for each tab.

====
cbc-subdoc::
+ 
--
. Connect to the `cbc-subdoc` interactive shell.

. Use the `dict-upsert` command to update/add a field in a document, or use the `replace` command if you require the field to exist. 

>   Pass the field to update/add and its value with the `--path` argument. 

Reviewer: You could, if you want to, separate this out into two steps.

```suggestion
. Use the `dict-upsert` command to update/add a field in a document, or use the `replace` command if you require the field to exist.

. Pass the field to update/add and its value with the `--path` argument. 
```

{kv-subdoc-update-example}

[source,console]
----
cbc-subdoc -u Administrator -P password -U couchbase://localhost/travel-sample
subdoc> dict-upsert airport_1254 --path pets_ok=true
----

.Result
[source,console]
----
airport_1254         CAS=0x16be23af9f630000
0. Size=0, RC=LCB_SUCCESS (0)
----
--

.NET::
+ 
--
. To change a specific field inside a document, call the `MutateInAsync()` method, which takes a document ID and an IEnumerable containing `MutateInSpec` objects. 
`MutateInSpec` represents the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.

> . A `MutateInResult` object is returned containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document update operation.

Reviewer: Making it less descriptive and more procedural

```suggestion
. Call the `MutateInAsync()` method, which takes a document ID and an IEnumerable containing `MutateInSpec` objects. 

. Use a `MutateInSpec` object to specify the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.

A `MutateInResult` object is returned, containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document update operation.
```

{kv-subdoc-update-example}

[source,csharp]
----
include::dotnet-sdk:hello-world:example$KvHelloWorldScoped.csx[tag=kv-update-subdoc,indent=0]
----

{github}
--

Java::
+ 
--
. To change a specific field inside a document, call the `mutateIn()` method, which takes a document ID and an array of `MutateInSpec` objects. `MutateInSpec` represents the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.

> . A `MutateInResult` object is returned containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document update operation.

Reviewer: Making it less descriptive and more procedural

```suggestion
. Call the `mutateIn()` method, which takes a document ID and an array of `MutateInSpec` objects. 

. Use a `MutateInSpec` object to specify the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.

A `MutateInResult` object is returned, containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document update operation.
```

{kv-subdoc-update-example}

[source,java]
----
include::java-sdk:hello-world:example$KvHelloWorldScoped.java[tag=kv-update-subdoc,indent=0]
----

{github}
--

Node.js::
+ 
--
. To change a specific field inside a document, call the `mutateIn()` method, which takes a document ID and an array of `MutateInSpec` objects. `MutateInSpec` represents the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.

> . A `MutateInResult` object is returned containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document update operation.

Reviewer: Making it less descriptive and more procedural

```suggestion
. Call the `mutateIn()` method, which takes a document ID and an array of `MutateInSpec` objects. 

. Use a `MutateInSpec` object to specify the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.

A `MutateInResult` object is returned, containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document update operation.
```

{kv-subdoc-update-example}

[source,nodejs]
----
include::nodejs-sdk:hello-world:example$kv-hello-world-scoped.js[tag=kv-update-subdoc,indent=0]
----

{github}
--

Python::
+ 
--

> . To change a specific field inside a document, call the `lookup_in()` function, which takes a document ID and a list of `MutateInSpec` objects. 
> `MutateInSpec` represents the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.
> 
> . A `MutateInResult` object is returned containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document get operation.

Reviewer: Making it less descriptive and more procedural

```suggestion
. Call the `lookup_in()` function, which takes a document ID and a list of `MutateInSpec` objects. 

. Use a `MutateInSpec` object to specify the sub-operation to be performed within the lookup.

A `MutateInResult` object is returned, containing the result and metadata relevant to the sub-document get operation.
```

}
----

[source,shell]
----
include::example$kv/kv-cbc.sh[tag=cbc-kv-replace]
----

.Result
[source,console]
----
hotel-123            Stored. CAS=0x16bd486ce6250000
                     SYNCTOKEN=500,228620113724555,293
----

NOTE: If the document cannot be found, [.cmd]`cbc` will return a `LCB_ERR_DOCUMENT_NOT_FOUND` error. 

{cbc-api-url}
--

.NET::
+ 
--
. Fetch an existing document and change some of its data.

. Use the `ReplaceAsync()` function to update a document in Couchbase.
  To ensure data has not been modified before executing the replace operation, pass the document's `CAS` value to the method.

A new `CAS` value is provided in the returned `MutationResult` object.

'''

{kv-update-replace-example}

[source,csharp]
----
include::dotnet-sdk:hello-world:example$KvHelloWorldScoped.csx[tag=kv-update-replace,indent=0]
----

NOTE: If the document doesn't exist, the SDK will return a `DocumentNotFoundException` error.

{github}

For further details, refer to {dotnet-api-url}/Couchbase.KeyValue.CollectionExtensions.html[CollectionExtensions^].
--

Java::
+ 
--
. Fetch an existing document and change some of its data.

> . Use the `replace()` method to update a document in Couchbase

Reviewer: Full stop at end

```suggestion
. Use the `replace()` method to update a document in Couchbase.
```
